README.md, before:

# GistQueue

A message queue system using GitHub Gists as the storage backend.

## Overview

GistQueue is a Python library that implements a simple message queue system using GitHub Gists for storage. It allows you to:

- Create and manage message queues as GitHub Gists
- Add, retrieve, update, and delete messages in the queues
- Handle concurrent access with conflict detection and resolution
- Automatically clean up processed messages

## Requirements

- Python 3.8 or higher
- A GitHub account
- A GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/example/gistqueue.git
   cd gistqueue
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv_gistqueue
   .\venv_gistqueue\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   source venv_gistqueue/bin/activate  # Linux/macOS
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Set up your GitHub token:
   - Create a GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope at https://github.com/settings/tokens
   - Set the token as an environment variable:
     ```
     # Windows
     set GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here

     # Linux/macOS
     export GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
     ```
   - Alternatively, create a `.env` file in the project root (copy from `.env.example`):
     ```
     GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
     ```

5. Install the package in development mode:
   ```
   pip install -e .
   ```

## Usage

### Command Line Interface

GistQueue provides a command-line interface for common operations:

```
# Initialize and test your environment
gistqueue init

# Create a new queue
gistqueue create-queue orders

# List available queues
gistqueue list-queues
```

### Python API

```python
from gistqueue.github_client import GistClient

# Initialize the client
client = GistClient()

# Create a new queue
gist = client.create_gist(
    description="Queue: Orders",
    filename="orders_queue.json",
    content="[]"
)

# Get the queue content
content = client.get_gist_content(gist, "orders_queue.json")
queue_data = client.parse_json_content(content)
```

## Development

### Running Tests

```
pytest
```

### Building the Package

```
pip install build
python -m build
```

Commit message:

Enhance documentation and logging features; add comprehensive usage instructions, centralized logging configuration, and improve error handling across modules.

README.md, after:

# GistQueue

A message queue system using GitHub Gists as the storage backend.

## Overview

GistQueue is a Python library that implements a simple message queue system using GitHub Gists for storage. It allows you to:

- Create and manage message queues as GitHub Gists
- Add, retrieve, update, and delete messages in the queues
- Handle concurrent access with conflict detection and resolution
- Automatically clean up processed messages
- Comprehensive logging with configurable levels and outputs

## Requirements

- Python 3.8 or higher
- A GitHub account
- A GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope

## Setup

1. Clone the repository:
   ```
   git clone https://github.com/example/gistqueue.git
   cd gistqueue
   ```

2. Create and activate a virtual environment:
   ```
   python -m venv venv_gistqueue
   .\venv_gistqueue\Scripts\activate  # Windows
   source venv_gistqueue/bin/activate  # Linux/macOS
   ```

3. Install dependencies:
   ```
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

4. Set up your GitHub token:
   - Create a GitHub personal access token with the `gist` scope at https://github.com/settings/tokens
   - Set the token as an environment variable:
     ```
     # Windows
     set GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here

     # Linux/macOS
     export GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
     ```
   - Alternatively, create a `.env` file in the project root (copy from `.env.example`):
     ```
     GIST_TOKEN=your_github_token_here
     ```

5. Install the package in development mode:
   ```
   pip install -e .
   ```

## Usage

For detailed usage instructions, examples, and complete command reference, see the [USAGE.md](USAGE.md) document.

### Command Line Interface

GistQueue provides a command-line interface for common operations:

```bash
# Initialize and test your environment
gistqueue init

# Create a new queue
gistqueue create-queue orders

# List available queues
gistqueue list-queues
```

### Python API

```python
from gistqueue.github_client import GistClient

# Initialize the client
client = GistClient()

# Create a new queue
gist = client.create_gist(
    description="Queue: Orders",
    filename="orders_queue.json",
    content="[]"
)

# Get the queue content
content = client.get_gist_content(gist, "orders_queue.json")
queue_data = client.parse_json_content(content)
```

## Development

### Logging

GistQueue uses Python's standard logging module for all output. By default, logs are sent to stderr with timestamps and log levels. You can configure the logging behavior by modifying the `gistqueue/logging_config.py` file or by using Python's logging configuration in your application.

Example log output:
```
2025-04-04 22:26:00,569 - gistqueue - INFO - Environment check passed. GitHub authentication successful.
2025-04-04 22:26:02,730 - gistqueue - INFO - Queue 'test_queue_example' already exists.
2025-04-04 22:26:05,546 - gistqueue - ERROR - Failed to retrieve queue content.
```

### Running Tests

```
pytest
```

### Building the Package

```
pip install build
python -m build
```
